---
layout: post
category :
tagline: ""
tags : []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I have been looking for a blog platform for some time. The features I am looking for include
# Markdown/textile support (try to create a table in Blogger and you know why I want this)
# MathJax support (as a boring engineer I would occasionally like to write down some equations)
# Full site import and export
# Search support for non-English
# Code snippet and syntax highlight
# Version control
# Free hosting

WordPress seems to support all of the features I want (with plug-ins), but I am not sure if there is a free host that allows the installation of arbitrary plug-ins. Blogger does not support markdown yet. I was once considering a wiki platform like wikidot.com, but there seems some overhead in learning the framework. 

Few days ago I read some post about "building your blog with Jekyll+GitHub in 5 minutes," and I decided to give it a try. With Jekyll Bootstrap, it is surprisingly simple. It came out of box with most of the features I wanted, and after some googling, I customized the blog with MathJax support added. I will find out how to include a gist in the post some time later. It shouldn't be too difficult to do it for a blog hosted on GitHub.

Quick summary for my customizations:
# "Personalize _config.yml":https://github.com/yychang/yychang.github.com/commit/097a0f9f44e4d8a1a3a950406c3fe2a9d05ba24d
# "Make the home page to display the 4 recent posts":https://github.com/yychang/yychang.github.com/commit/7a9007efa44d8b0a9d61d24acc4852492eb9345f
# "Hide the sample post":https://github.com/yychang/yychang.github.com/commit/1b29f17865ffb886ecab8f6e16ae2a1009a49867
# "Add MathJax support":https://github.com/yychang/yychang.github.com/commit/40701ebef8896e1b9c4972ed7367e72b8060d263
